SIP-00xx: ZERO Token Sale via Origins
Introduction
I hereby submit this SIP to utilise the Sovryn Origins platform as a launchpad for the Zero protocol as a Sovryn subprotocol. 
Motivation
Zero can create a new dynamic for Bitcoin, allowing hodlers to avoid ever having to sell their BTC. Zero allows BTC to be used to create a 0% interest LoC (line of credit) for fiat-denominated needs.  Everything that would have previously required selling BTC can now be accomplished by borrowing against this LoC. 

With the introduction of the Sovryn Mynt, Sovryn aims to improve the decentralization and security of stablecoin liquidity. With the addition of Zero, Bitcoiners can use their BTC as collateral for creating stablecoin that can be used for their everyday economic needs, including trading, lending, payments and hedging.  

Due to the fact that LoCs are 0% interest positions that can be held into perpetuity. As the value of the underlying BTC collateral accruces value, the LoC expands allowing for additional borrowing. It is conceivable to maintain LoC borrowing indefinitely without the need to pay them down, unless it is desired to, once again, make the collateral liquid.
Background
​Zero is a decentralized protocol that aims to provide interest-free stablecoin loans using RBTC as collateral, with a minimum BTC collateral ratio of 110%. Loans are further secured by a Stability Pool containing ZUSD and by fellow borrowers collectively acting as guarantors of last resort. The ZUSD token will not be needed by the borrower, as it will automatically generate the B.Stables minted by the Sovryn Mynt. 

The Zero protocol is non-custodial, operated purely by smart contracts with no central controlling entity. As with the rest of the Sovryn ecosystem, users will interact directly with the Zero protocol with no KYC or intermediary interference.

Use cases:
Borrow Stables secured by BTC by opening a Line of Credit (LoC)
Secure Zero by providing ZUSD to the Stability Pool in exchange for rewards
Stake the ZERO token to earn fee revenue paid for borrowing or redeeming ZUSD
Redeem 1 ZUSD for $1 worth of BTC when the ZUSD peg falls below $1
The ZERO Token
ZERO is the subprotocol token issued by Zero. It captures the fee revenue generated by the system and incentivizes early adopters. The token will be bonded to SOV via a bonding curve. As such supply is unlimited but becomes increasingly expensive in SOV terms as more are created - however, by proxy, the limit supply limit of SOV would theoretically limit ZERO supply at some point. 
 
Users can earn from ZERO in two different ways:
Deposit ZUSD to the Stability Pool and earn liquidation gains (in RBTC) and ZERO rewards.
​Stake ZERO and earn ZUSD and RBTC revenue from borrowing and redemption fees.

It is important to highlight that ZERO is not a stablecoin. Instead, ZUSD is used as an underlying agg the USD-pegged stablecoin used to pay out loans on the Zero protocol - and is collateral for the Sovryn Mynt. It can be redeemed at any time for the underlying collateral at face value. 

ZERO Protocol benefits include:
​0% interest rate - borrowers do not need to worry about constantly accruing debt
​Minimum collateral ratio of 110% - efficient use of RBTC on deposit
A subprotocol of the Sovryn protocol - all operations are algorithmic and fully automated, and protocol parameters are upgradable by Bitocracy.
Directly redeemable - ZUSD can be redeemed at face value for the underlying collateral at any time, guaranteeing a price floor of $1
Bitocracy controlled - Zero will be deployed within the Sovryn protocol, making it censorship-resistant and under the control of Bitocracy.

It is expected that ZERO stakers will govern the Zero subprotocol. However, there may be a transition period where Zero is still directly governed by SOV Bitocracy. 
Proposal
Perform the initial issuance of the ZERO token sale on Sovryn’s Origins Launchpad Platform
The initial issuance will be at a fixed exchange rate of SOV to ZERO. This initial supply will be referred to as the bootstrap supply. 
List the ZERO token on the Sovryn AMM.
Integrate interest-free loans and the remainder of the Zero Protocol into Sovryn
A trading fee of 0.3% will be applied to trades that redeem ZERO for SOV. The fees thus collected will accrue to the Sovryn protocol and distributed to SOV stakers. This fee will be applied in SOV.   

Timing
It is anticipated that Zero subprotocol and the Sovryn Mynt sub-protocol within 6 weeks of both protocols having been approved. 
It is anticipated that the Bootstrap sale for the Zero bonding curve will occur shortly after this SIP is passed. 

ZERO Token Economics
20% of Zero subprotocol revenue will accrue to SOV Stakers and 80% will accrue to ZERO stakers. 

Bootstrap Sale Details
Bootstrap Supply: 65%
Incentive Supply: 35%
Bootstrap Initial ZERO/SOV ratio: 100/1





Lockup
Vesting
Bootstrap Supply
65%
1 Month
None
Incentive Supply
35%
N/A
See Below








Incentive Supply






Founders (ZERO)
9%


36 Months, 6 Month Cliff
Liquidity Mining (ZERO)
9%
Exchequer
None
Stability Pool (ZERO)
8%
Algorithmic
None
Zero Treasury (ZERO)
5%
1 Month
36 Months
Fully-vested SOV stakers (ZERO)
3%
Algorithmic
None
LQTY Merkledrop (ZERO)
1%
Active Acceptance
None
Total
35%






The Bootstrap sale will take place as a week-long event during which SOV can be deposited, via Origins, in the Bootstrap contract. The amount that can be deposited will be uncapped. 

Proposed Implementation
Zero to do x, y and z. 
Exchequer to do a, b and c.
Other works needed by the Sovryn core team are x, y and z.



Additional Links and Materials:
Link to Spec
Link to Blogpost
Link to Audit
Link to Description
Such as Twitter etc, may not be necessary for Zero…
License
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
