On behalf of the BabelFish community, I hereby submit SIP 0018 to initiate a token sale for our protocol through the Origins Protocol. Our forum post on April 29th 10 seeking feedback for this proposal quickly became the most commented topic on Sovryn’s forum to date. Taking all the feedback received since (by this forum’s participants and by our fast growing grassroots community) a final version is presented here with the objective of being voted on by the participants of Bitocracy.

BabelFish’s alpha version seeks to provide deep USD liquidity to Sovryn by aggregating stablecoins across chains. Having a token sale in the protocol will bootstrap the protocol’s development and jumpstart a decentralised organisation. We look forward to building a much-needed solution for the DeFi space with Sovryn as a launchpad.

Introducing BabelFish to Sovryn
BabelFish aims to be the first money lego built on Sovryn with the mission of bringing deep stablecoin liquidity to the ecosystem. Today there are five stablecoins with at least $1bn in crypto-USD float, there are many more with less than that…they are different brands with different unique selling points and so do not translate 1:1. As stablecoins bloom and DeFi markets grow beyond Ethereum to chains like Rootstock, Avalanche, Binance, Solana, etc. the combined USD liquidity gets fractured further which is suboptimal for the industry as a whole. BabelFish turns these liquidity swamps into a liquidity lake and simplifies stablecoin management for DeFi protocols and exchanges.

We want to bring a decentralized aggregator and distributor of stablecoins that earns yield on the deposits’ respective chains, and re-invests the interest periodically in a community-owned pool of rBTC - the ultimate insurance. This will also be convenient in terms of UI/UX inside Sovryn’s portfolio, as users won’t have to choose between a growing myriad of USD-pegs, instead, all USD-pegs can be deposited and withdrawn 1:1 via a single xUSD, providing deeper USD liquidity.

Users will vote in the direction of the protocol using FISH tokens and, as this is a solution built for and by Sovryns, the token sale to bootstrap a decentralized protocol will be conducted using rBTC. Further, 2.5% of FISH tokens will be allocated to the Sovryn protocol to create an AMM FISH/RBTC pair and discover fair market value.

Bridging stablecoins to Sovryn via https://tokenbridge.rsk.co/ 19 takes up to 24 hours and is suboptimal to manage as the protocol and industry grows. BabelFish can leverage the Binance and Ethereum bridges to build a secure protocol that simplifies the experience and management of USD, while adding to Sovryn’s utility, providing deep liquidity and contributing to Bitcoin’s value.

I’ve been discussing with Yago and members of IOV Labs, while building a BabelFish MVP with Tzu and dharkmattr. The MVP to aggregate stablecoins in Ethereum and Binance chains into a single xUSD that can be exchanged and redeemed 1:1 by any of its underlying will shortly be on testnet.

BabelFish seeks to lend its stablecoin collateral in AAVE, Compound, Venus and other lending protocols available. The yield earned would periodically be used to acquire rBTC for the protocol’s insurance. Users will earn FISH tokens to govern the protocol’s accepted stablecoins, allocations and use of funds.

Motivation
The reasoning behind SIP 18 is to:

Launch the first token sale on Sovryn’s platform, benefitting the Blockchain Whispers and Sovryn communities the initial team is part of
Bootstrap decentralized governance to manage the protocol’s decisions
Provide deep stablecoin liquidity to Sovryn OS
Stablecoin experimentation is just starting, and BabelFish wants to build chain-agnostic solutions to support innovation in the ecosystem while hedging risks and inefficiencies. The need for a translation device that enables stablecoin holders from any (accepted) issuer to trade with each other, as cash, is glaringly obvious.

We want to help make this goal a reality and believe that Sovryn is the best place to validate it. We want BabelFish’s solution to increase the pool of liquidity and participants in Sovryn. BabelFish can empower users with the full promise of the digital currency, but we must build it in a decentralised way, together as a community.

Decentralization
Building the foundations of a decentralized autonomous organization is a priority for BabelFish.

This is a collective experiment to remake and decentralize money and cannot be managed by a central authority, but by an active community of participants akin to the example being set by Sovryn. We believe that fellow Sovryns understand the benefits of decentralized organizations, from a legal and technological perspective.

Tokenomics
Since the name BabelFish is inspired from Douglas Adam’s The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, and since the total number of tokens issued by a protocol is arbitrary, we have settled on a total token supply of 420,000,000 FISH. Liquidity mining will commence once decided upon by governance, with 18% of the total supply being rewarded in the first year.

For a comprehensive view of BabelFish token emission schedule, see here 65.

Token Sale
To launch the protocol in a decentralised way, we must issue a token to vote on proposals, manage resources and reward liquidity providers and participants. We propose a capped initial token sale within 4 weeks for 7.5% of the FISH supply to bootstrap this process. This will jumpstart our path towards a decentralized governance system from day one and make BabelFish an important piece of the Bitcoin DeFi ecosystem where Sovryn plays a central role.

Funds raised will go to BabelFish’s treasury contract and vest accordingly to provide stakeholders with voting power. Ultimately, stablecoin users who use BabelFish to bring liquidity to Sovryn will also earn FISH rewards for governance. In addition to the 7.5% of the tokens for sale, Sovryn will receive 2.5% to create an AMM, and 1% will be airdropped to stakers pro-rata:

Token Sale Day One: Exclusive to Premium BCW members
FISH price: $0.11
Token for sale: 32,508,000
Percent of supply: 7.74%
Vesting: 10 months linear
Wallet limit: $2,000
Accepting: rBTC

Token Sale Day Two: Public
FISH price: $0.18
Token for sale: 20,000,000
Percent of supply: 4.76%
Vesting: 10 month linear with 50% immediately vested
Limit per wallet: $3,000
Accepting: rBTC

Airdrop to Sovryn’s Governance Stakers
1% pro-rata to SOV stakers by weight

Listing on Sovryn AMM
Token for Sovryn: 10,500,000
Percent of supply: 2.5%
Pool to be created: FISH/rBTC

Additional Links
Website 19
Discord 5
Telegram 6
Twitter
YouTube 1
